Create a new instance from the Cloud Console

	->learn how to create new pre-defined machine types with Google Compute Engine from the Cloud Console.
	->In the GCP Console, on the top left of the screen, select Navigation menu > Compute Engine > VM Instances. :
	->To create a new instance, click Create
	
	There are many parameters you can configure when creating a new instance. Use the following for this lab:

Field			value  		 

Name			gcelab

Region			us-central1 (Iowa)

Zone			us-central1-c

Machine Type	1 vCPU

				(This is a (n1-standard-1)
				1-CPU, 3.75GB RAM instance.

Boot Disk		New 10 GB standard persistent disk
				OS Image: Debian GNU/Linux 9 (Stretch)
				(There are a number of images to choose from, including: Debian, Ubuntu, CoreOS as well as premium images such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Windows Server)
				
Firewall		Check Allow HTTP traffic

Note: This will automatically create firewall rule to allow HTTP traffic on port 80.
Note: remember the zone that you selected, you'll need it later.

		->Click Create
		
Understanding Regions and Zones
	
	Certain Compute Engine resources live in regions or zones. 
	A region is a specific geographical location where you can run your resources. 
Each region has one or more zones. 
For example, 
		->the us-central1 region denotes a region in the Central United States that has zones 
				->us-central1-a, us-central1-b, us-central1-c, and us-central1-f.
				
Once finished, you should see the new virtual machine in the VM Instances page.
To SSH into the virtual machine, click on SSH on the right hand side. This launches a SSH client directly from your browser.

Install a NGINX web server
Now you'll install NGINX web server, one of the most popular web servers in the world, to connect your virtual machine to something.

Once SSH'ed, get root access using sudo.
	->sudo su -
As the root user, update your OS:
	->apt-get update


	Install NGINX:
		->apt-get install nginx -y
	Check that NGINX is running:
		->ps auwx | grep nginx
		
Note:Go to the Cloud Console and click the External IP link of the virtual machine instance. 
	You can also see the web page by adding the External IP to http://EXTERNAL_IP/ in a new browser window or tab

	You should see this default web page:










